hi i'm max and this is the short story
of how i designed
and 3d printed my very own mathematical
sculpture
this developing fractal but first
let me explain what one of these is this
is the sipinski arrowhead curve
it's a fractal so that means that it
looks roughly the same
however much i zoom in or out this
property is called self-similarity
it's what makes the fractal beautiful
and so by making a developing fractal
i've set out to create a real
physical object that conveys the fractal
self-similarity
but before we start on building our
developing fractal we need to think
about how to draw it
and that starts with this line from it
we can generate the fractal
using a simple set of rules
geometrically they say that each
straight line
like the one on screen gets replaced by
three half its length
each 120 degrees apart
and you place the new three lines on
alternating sides of the original one
so that the second iteration looks like
this instead of this
or this thus from our original line
we can generate more and more
complicated iterations
until we get to the one i showed at the
start but for the final object
my 3d printer can't print details as
small as you can see on screen
so we're going to use just the first six
iterations and we're going to stack them
creating the outline of our object
so that's the plan for the object but
before we can use the 3d printer to make
it
we need to model it properly to do that
i've used some 3d modeling software
called fusion 360.
first i built this transition from the
first iteration to the second
then repeated it with a lot of copying
and pasting
until there were the right number of
layers i've added the windows in each
section so you can see through it a
little
and then i used some more software
blender this time to turn this
which was paper thin into a proper solid
object
and it's ready to print however i forgot
to film the printing process
and since printing took six hours here's
an animation instead of how it was done
[Music]
okay here's the final object in it
you can see each of the layers from the
first to the sixth
as well as the transition from one line
to the three below it
here here here and repeated all the way
through the shape
just like in the animation i showed when
i was explaining the rules
and so here you have it a 3d printed
developing fractal
you